- JS types can be divided into tưo categories: primitive types and object types.

# **1. Primitive types:**

- numbers
- strings
- text (string)
- booleans
- symbols (ES2015)

* Special types: null, undefined which cannot be invoked directly.

==> Some of properties

- Always immutable,

# 2.**Object types**

All nonprimitive values are objects

- Array,
- Mutable by default
- Function has executable code associated with it. It may be invoked to run that executable code and return a computed value.
- User-extensible

## the most important thing about functions in JS is that they are true values and that JS programs can treat them as regular objects.

## CONSTRUCTOR is a special method that is used to initialize a newly created object and is called just after the memory is allocated for the object.

**The JS interpreter performs automatic garbage collection for memory management.**

```
When an object is no longer reachable—when a program no longer has any way to refer to it—the interpreter knows it can never be used again and automatically reclaims the memory it was occupying
```

- JavaScript is an object-oriented language (OOP)
- When functions are assigned to the property of an object, we can call them "methods".
- JS converts values liberally from one type to another.

# 3.1 Numbers:

- When a number appears directly in a JS program, it's called a numeric literal.
- All numbers in JS are represented

## 3.2.4 pattern matching

- for creating objects that represent textual patterns.
- Both strings and RegExp objects have methods for performing pattern matching and search-and replace operations using regular expressions.

# Null and undefined values:

- undefined: create variables which do not have values

# Wrapper Objects:

the temporary objects created when you access a property of a string, number, boolean

- the string, number and boolean values differ from objects in that their properties are read-only and that you cna't define new properties on them.

- Objects are not compared value: Two objects are not equal event if they have the same properties and values (array same)

var o = {x: 1}, p = {x: 1}

o === p (false)

# To convert an object to a string:

1. if the object has toString() method, JavaScript calls it. If it returns a primitive value, JS converts that value to a string (if it is not already a string)and returns the result of that conversion.
2. If the object has no toString() method, or if that method does not return a primitive value, then JS looks of a valueOf() method. If the method exists, JavaScript calls it. If the value is a primitive, JS converts that value to a string (if it is not already a string) and returns the converted value.
3. Otherwise, JavaScript cannot obtain a primitive value from either toString or or valueOf(), so it throws a TypeError

# To convert an Object to a number

- If the object has a valueOf() method that returns a primitive value, JavaScript converts (if necessary) that primitive value to a number and returns the result.
- Otherwise, if the object has toString() method that returns a primitive value, JS converts and returns the value.
- Otherwise, JavaScript throws a typeError.

# 3.10 Variable scope

1. A global has global scope, it is defined everywhere in your JavaScript.

## 3.10.1 Hoisting

1. function scope instead of block scope like C - other programming languages.
2. if you use "var" for declaring a variable, it will be declared on the top of the scope. As result, there may have some issues if you use this variable multiple places.

```bash
# function 1
var i = 1;
function countZero = () =>{
  return i + 1;
}
# result: 2


# function 2
# if you declare again the variable
var i = 2;
function countZero = () =>{
  return i + 1;
}
# result: 4;

# ===> The results of 1 will be changed to 4
```
